okay so we're now going to switch to the
next topic inference so the simplest
form of inference is using method called
modus ponens the way it works is that if
you have a statement let's say alpha and
we also know that alpha umpires better
you can infer it it better is true so
here's an example if we know that
marking is a cat and we know that for
all X cat is of X implies each fish X we
can infer from this that Martin eats
fish so influence can be done in many
different ways you can use forward
chaining that's when individual facts
are added to the knowledge base and then
you derive all the possible influences
that follow from those individual facts
then you can also use backward chaining
that's when you start from a query for
that you want to find out if a certain
statement is true and then to figure
this out you have to go back to the
database and find the statements that
have to be true in order for your query
to be true and so on recursively until
you of each statements whose Tools
values are known so backward chaining is
implemented for example natively in the
prologue programming language so just
show you a brief example of Prolog in
palo you can define the following
influence statement in the knowledge
base so x is the father of y means that
it has to be true that x is a parent of
Y and that X is male and then if you
have the following facts john is the
parent of bill jane is the parent of
bill jane is female and john is male all
this in your knowledge base and you get
a quicker it says find me an M where m
is a person who's the father of Bill so
using backward chaining what you need to
do is to go to the knowledge base and
find that in order for m to be the
father of Bill there has to be
statements with two values which say
that m is the parent of Bill and that M
is male so going back now we have to
find statements about m being the parent
of bill that two possible instances of
that John and Jane and at the same time
we want m to be male so there's only one
such statement so male john therefore
the only combination of statements in
the knowledge
space that satisfies the query is where
John is equal to M which is also equal
to X and Bill is equal to Y and
therefore we're going to return that the
value of M is equal to John so let's see
how we can use first-order logic for
infants I'm going to share the examples
from the kinship domain the first one is
to represent the fact that brothers are
siblings so how do we do this well we
said it for all x and y if X is the
brother of Y that implies that X is the
sibling of part another statement is
once mother is once female parent again
we can define this by saying there for
all M and C like mother and child if the
mother is M matter of C's em that I'm
the same as M is female and M is the
parent of C and finally we won't be able
to represent the fact that the sibling
relation is symmetric so that is
represented in the following way for all
x and y sibling XY is equivalent to
sibling Y X now let's see how we can do
inference in a little bit more detail
the next thing that I want to introduce
is Universal instantiation so we can say
that every instantiation of a
universally quantified sentence is
entailed by it so if we know that for
all V alpha is 2 we can infer that any
substitution where V is replaced by a
specific instance G is also true for a
so this is true for any variable V and
any ground term for example constant G
so here's an example for Oh X cat is X I
mean X is a cat and fish is y implies
that X is y this can be represented as
in the following substitution Martin is
a cat and blob is a fish implies that
Martin eats blob now in example of
existential instantiation for any
sentence alpha and variable V and
constant simple K which doesn't appear
somewhere else in the knowledge base if
we know that there exists V for which
alpha is 2 which
for that if we replace this view with a
specific constant symbol K the statement
alpha is also going to be true so for
example if we have the exists a cat
called X and exits fish we can represent
this using a c1 as a specific cat the
one that exists and we can claim for
that specific cat see one that c1 is a
cat and at c1 it's fish by the way this
special constant symbol is known in the
logic field as ass column constant so
let's talk a little bit about
unification so unification is done when
you have a possible substitution for
example if we have the statements P
which is X its Y and the statement Q
which is X its blob it's possible to
unify those two under the substitution
that it places the variable Y with a
specific object blob another example if
P is the statement Martin eats Y and Q
is the statement X its blob it is
possible to unify those two using the
substitution X is Martin and y's blob
another example if P is the statement
marking its Y and this Q is the
statement why it's blob it's impossible
to unify those two because we want to
simultaneously satisfied two
substitutions we want Y to be equal to
Martin and white we go to blob and
because Martin and blob are different
then the unification process is going to
fail okay so there are many cases where
we can do unification one is if we want
to unify a variable with an object
another example is when we want to unify
two objects and they are the same object
it is also possible to unify two things
if one of them subsumes the other one so
here's an example we if we know that all
cats eat fish and we know that Martin is
a cat and blob is a fish we can unify
those statements together